STUNT CAR RACER
by Geoff Crammond

BBC Master version
Ported by Bitshifters

DRIVING CONTROLS
================

Key controls
------------

Steering left ................ S
Steering right ............... D
Boost+accelerator forward .... RETURN
Boost+Brake/Reverse .......... Space
Brake/Reverse ................ *

The key controls are set up to avoid
the need to press more than two keys at
any one time.

With the 'Boost and Accelerator' key
depressed, your car will be
accelerating with boost. Once the key
is released, the car will continue to
accelerate, but without the boost.
Therefore, the key does not need to be
held down continuously unless boost is
required.

Forward acceleration is turned off by
pressing either of the two
brake/reverse keys. The car will then
freewheel until another key is pressed.

Two brake/reverse keys provide two
braking/reversing rates, i.e., with and
without boost.

Redefining keys
---------------

The car control keys are redefined from
the cockpit. First of all, PAUSE the
game (see Item 4 of 'Further
Controls'). Then press the f1 key. The
"PAUSED" message on screen will be
replaced by a "DEFINE KEYS" message.

The computer then asks for the keys
that you wish to use for the relevant
controls. It then requests that you
verify the keys that have been pressed.
Enter the same keys again and the
computer will then return to the main
game. If the second entry does not
match the first, the computer will ask
for another set of keys to be pressed
and verified. You mist then unpause the
game to continue.

redefine the keys at any time during a
In multi-player mode, each player can
race (preferably before the start). The
settings are stored for each individual
player and are automatically
re-installed in subsequent races
involving that player.

Auto-alignment
--------------

When the car is on a straight section
of track and there is no steering input
from the keys, the car will steer
itself in the direction of the track
(unless, of course, it is airborne).

Other controls
--------------

1. On the 'Name Selection' page, type
in your name and press RETURN to
continue.

2. On the 'Menu' pages, press 1, 2, 3,
etc. to move the highlight bar and
select by pressing RETURN.

3. Where appropriate, the RETURN key
can be pressed to advance to the next
screen.

4. There is a PAUSE facility available
whilst driving. Pause the game by
pressing:

Pause on ............... P
Pause off .............. O

5. You can retire from a race or
practice using the ESCAPE key. Note
that if you are racing, you will
automatically lose the race and best
lap time points.

6. You can drop out of a season's
racing by holding down the f1 key at
the same time as clicking the fire
button on the NEXT RACE fixture page.

7. You can return to the game start by
holding down the f1 key at the same
time as pressing RETURN on REPLAY
SEASON.

Practice mode
-------------

A player can practice on any track by
selecting 'Practice' on the main menu
and choosing the division containing
the desired track. The tracks are as
follows:

Division 1      The Drawbridge
                The Ski Jump

Division 2      The Rollercoaster
                The High Jump

Division 3      The Big Ramp
                The Stepping Stones

Division 4      The Hump Back
                The Little Ramp

If 'PRACTICE' mode is selected and the
player is in the SUPER LEAGUE, then
extra power and speed will be available
to the player on each track.

Each practice session lasts three laps.
After three laps, your car will
automatically be repaired and
refuelled. However more practice
sessions can follow if desired.

Note that only damage incurred during
the practice session is repaired.

DASHBOARD
=========

Lap Indicator
-------------

The lap number that you are currently
completing is shown at the bottom left
of the screen with the prefix 'L', e.g.
L2 means you are on your second lap.

Boost
-----

This indicates how much boost you have
left and is shown with the prefix 'B',
e.g. B30 means you have 30 units of
boost left.

Separation
----------

At the bottom of the left hand side,
there is the figure that gives the
separation between you and your
opponent in metres. If there is a '-'
in front of the number, you are ahead
of your opponent by however much the
readout says. Conversely, if the figure
is not prefixed, you are behind by x
metres. The units indicated are metres
and will always show the minimum
separation.

Lap Time/Stopwatch
------------------

The flag indicator on the left lights
up when you are leading the race. The
top right hand display shows current
lap time. Under this is the best lap
time (yours or your opponents). The
stopwatch indicator to the left lights
up if the best lap time is yours.

Speedometer
-----------

The speedometer reads in 10s of mph. If
your speed exceeds 250mph, the
speedometer wraps round and starts from
the left hand side again, whereupon
your actual speed is 200mph [sic] + the
indicated speed.

OTHER FEATURES
==============

Damage
------

1. Chassis cracks

A crack in the chassis travels from
left to right along the top bar of the
roll cage when the car is put under
severe stress as in hard cornerings or
hard landings. When the crack reaches
the right hand side, the car is wrecked
and is retired from the race. However,
the cracks are repaired after each
race. If your car is wrecked and does
not finish the race then the points go
to your opponent.

2. Structural damage

Severe impacts give rise to holes in
the crossbar. These are permanent
features and stay with you throughout
the seasons. However, in Division 4,
you always start the season with a
completely undamaged car. The damage
crack (point 1 above) makes faster
progress when it encounters a hole.

Crane
-----

At the start of the race, the crane
picks you up from the side of the track
and swings you out over the start line.
The message 'DROP START' appears on
screen and, after a random interval,
the crane releases you onto the track.

If your car falls off the track, a
crane will pick you up and reposition
it over the track at the nearest, most
suitable point. The crane avoids bends
or gaps.

The message 'PRESS FIRE' will appear,
and, by so doing, you will release
yourself from the crane. However,
remember to wait until you are over the
track before pressing the fire button
to release you otherwise you will fall
off the side of the track again.

RACING
======

SINGLE PLAYER LEAGUE
====================

Objective
---------

The aim of the game is to become top of
the first division in the Stunt Car
Racer league. There are four divisions,
each containing three drivers and two
trackers. For first rate drivers, there
is also a Super League.

Super League
------------

The Super League can only be accessed
once you have become Division One
Champion. You are then offered the
chance to mix it with the ultimate
drivers in another series of races,
this time with much improved engine
power and brakes. You will start off in
Division Four of the Super League on
the same tracks as the normal league,
i.e. Hump Back and Little Ramp. The
only difference being that both you and
your opponents are capable of higher
speeds and accelerations. The aim of
Super League is to work your way
through the four divisions to become
Super League Champion.

A Racing Season
---------------

A full racing season involves six
races: all permutations with three
drivers and two tracks. Two of the six
races do not involve the player and so
are conducted behind the scenes.
Therefore, it is possible that the
first race of the season is billed as
'Race 3 of 6'.

The driver at the top of the division
table after six races is promoted into
the next division.

Practice Sessions
-----------------

Before entering a racing season, you
can practice on the two tracks which
feature in your present division.

Points Awarded
--------------

Win              2 points
Best lap time    1 point

In the event of a draw at the end of a
season, the driver with the greater
number of points gained from wins will
be promoted. If this number is the
same, a random selection is made.

If you retire from a race or are
wrecked without finishing a race, then
the best lap and race points go to your
opponent. If both cars are wrecked then
the car that was wrecked first is the
loser.

MULTI-PLAYER MODE
=================

Drivers Championship
--------------------

Up to eight players can take part in
the Driver's championship. The
Championship can consist of up to four
racing seasons. Each season takes place
on the two tracks of a league division
where the players can gain bonus points
being awarded to the players with the
fastest lap time and race time (sum of
all lap times during a race).

Access to Tracks
----------------

Since there is no promotion in
multi-player mode, access to tracks in
divisions other than Division 4
standard league must be obtained by
loading single-player game positions
that have previously been saved. The
greater the number of divisions that
you have access to, the greater the
choice of tracks when you come to race.
Ultimately, access to all four
divisions allows all 8 tracks to be
included in a 4 season championship.
Super League divisions can also be
included to get more power and speed.
Whatever the track selection, it must
be remembered that the other drivers
will perform to the standard of the
league and division.

Save Game Position
------------------

If there isn't time to play 4 seasons
then, before starting the next season,
the game position, i.e. the player's
names, points etc., can be saved and
the championship continued at a later
date. In order to save your game
position, select the SAVE option and
use a filename starting with the
letters 'MP'. 'MP' distinguishes a
multi-player game position from a
single player game position which is
used to gain race access to tracks.

Restart Championship
--------------------

To restart the championship without
having to re-enter the players' names,
select the REPLAY option.

To restart the whole game and return to
the single-player/multi-player menu
then hold down 'f1' [sic] whilst
selecting the REPLAY option.

Multi-Player Racing Season
--------------------------

A racing season consists of two rounds,
one on each track of a league division.
A round consist of all the players
racing in turn against a computer
driven pace car.

For each race there are the usual
points awarded: 2 points for a win, 1
point for best lap time. At the end of
the round, track bonus points are
awarded to the player(s) with the best
overall lap time (1 point) and best
overall race time (2 points) provided,
of course, that a lap time or race time
were attained by completing at least
one lap or completing a race. The
computer pace car's times are ignored.

When the second round is completed (on
the other track), bonus points are
added once again.

Quit the Season
---------------

It is possible to skip the remaining
races in the current round when the
next race fixture page is on the
screen. Hold down 'f1' [sic] whilst
pressing RETURN/FIRE and it will take
you through to the 'end of round' track
bonus screen.

An individual race can be skipped by
getting into the race and pressing the
'RETIRE' key.

Hall of Fame
------------

The Hall of Fame contains the track
records and the names of the people who
set them. It can be viewed from the
main menu by selecting "Hall of Fame".

The track records are for fastest lap
and fastest race time (sum of all lap
times during race). They can be set
during any race but not in practice
mode. If a record is broken then the
new record is announced on the
scoreboard at the end of the race.

The computer drivers do not contribute
to these records.

Save Hall of Fame
-----------------

The current Hall of Fame can be
preserved by selecting the SAVE menu
option and using a filename beginning
with the letters 'HALL...'

Load Hall of Fame
-----------------

Previously saved Hall of Fame files can
be loaded by selecting the LOAD menu
option and using the appropriate file
name. It does not matter if some new
records have already been created
before loading the Hall of Fame as only
records better than those times in the
current Hall of Fame are accepted when
loading.

This means that several Hall of Fame
files can be combined simply by loading
them all in. Saving then preserves the
optimum Hall of Fame.

Load/Save/Replay
----------------

Selecting this option gives another
menu with options LOAD, SAVE, and
REPLAY.

Load/Save
---------

Whether loading or saving, a filename
has to be entered. Some special
significance is attached to filenames
that start with certain letters:

(other) .. Single Player game position
HALL ..... Hall of Fame
MP ....... Multi-Player game position

Any other filename is taken to be a
single player game position. Suggested
names might be DIV4, DIV3, DIV2, DIV1
for the standard league and SDIV4,
SDIV3, SDIV2, SDIV1 for the Super
League. Pressing the 'ESCAPE' key while
entering the filename will cause an
exit back to the main menu. A message
saying 'file name inappropriate' will
appear if, for example, a file name
starting with 'MP' is used when saving
single players league positions.

Replay
------

In the single player mode this can be
used to replay the last season. This
has the effect of restoring everything
to how it was at the start of the last
season. This saves having to reload a
game position if the racing season ends
with demotion for the player.

Game Rest
---------

If f1 is held down while REPLAY is
selected, then the game will totally
reset and return to the single
player/multi player menu.

Racing Tips
-----------

You will need to find the best places
for overtaking on each track and then
use your boost to get in front as soon
as possible. It is always more
difficult to come from behind to win
than it is to hold the lead from the
start of the race. Remember, boost is
limited, so do not waste it.

When you exit from a bend, don't watch
the side of the track but look for the
road ahead and concentrate on bringing
that into the centre of your view.

Whilst it is generally important that
you go as fast as possible round the
tracks, there are places on certain
tracks that you must travel at a fairly
crucial speed, otherwise it could lead
to disaster. The Stepping Stones is one
such track. You must hit the actual
stepping stones at a constant speed
(found out through trial and error) and
keep this speed constant over every
stepping stone. Other tracks, such as
the High Jump, require you to have a
minimum velocity in order to clear the
obstacles. On the High Jump, for
instance, you must attain a certain
speed in order to clear the jump - a
fraction too slow and you past yourself
and your car against the track
supports.

CREDITS
=======

PROGRAM CONCEPT, DESIGN AND PROGRAMMING

Geoff Crammond

WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF

Norah Crammond

ADDITIONAL GRAPHICS

John Cummins

QUALITY CONTROL

Peter Moreland

MANUAL DESIGN

Julie Burness

MANUAL DESIGN AND GRAPHICS

Artistix UK

MANUAL

Tony Middlehurst
Martin Moth
Peter Jones
Geoff Crammond
